Good afternoon.
Yeah, yeah, whoo!
Welcome to Understanding iPhone
View Controllers.
My name is Evan Doll,
and I'm going to be joined shortly on
stage for some demos by Alex Aybes.
And we're both members of the
iPhone software engineering team.
Many of you in the audience have decided
to take the plunge and start developing
an application for the iPhone that you're
eventually going to ship to end users.
And even if you haven't,
you're probably thinking about it.
I mean, that's why you're here, right?
So your first priority, I'm guessing,
is to create a great iPhone
application with a native look and
feel and a fantastic user experience.
In addition, you've got a limited amount
of time and resources.
So you want to spend time writing
the code that you care about
that helps to differentiate
your app from everyone else's.
So if you can avoid
reinventing the wheel,
that's a big win.
On top of that,
it's never too early to start thinking
about version 2.0 and adding features and
extending your application in the future.
So if you can set yourself up for
that with work that you can do now,
that's also a very big win.
So...
What I'm going to cover today,
first of all,
is we're going to talk about
designing an iPhone application.
And we're going to talk about some
ways that you can organize and
present content on the iPhone,
and specifically what the motivation is
for using view controllers in your app.
And from there,
we're going to dive into building
a real live iPhone application.
And again,
we're going to focus on using view
controllers to your advantage.
So let's get right into it and
start talking about designing
an iPhone application.
Many of you in the audience
may have developed for other
mobile platforms in the past,
and you're familiar with how
the constraints of a small
screen can shape how you choose
to design your application.
And others of you may
come from a desktop,
perhaps a Mac OS X, Cocoa background,
and you've got a pretty good
handle on application development,
and you want to know how your design
skills translate for the iPhone.
So whichever perspective
you're coming from,
I think it's helpful to look at
an application that exists on
both the Mac platform and on the
iPhone and sort of see what some
similarities and differences are.
So the application that we're
going to look at is Mail,
an application that we all know and
love and use probably every day.
So Mail on Mac OS X presents a lot of
information to the user all at once.
We've got lists of mailboxes,
lists of messages,
maybe a message detail,
and a message composition all
on the screen at the same time.
And these different types of
content are divided by size.
So we've got a lot of
different types of content.
We've got a lot of
Meanwhile, in the iPhone version of Mail,
it has the same responsibilities
and goals as an application,
and it shares a lot of DNA,
but really it's a much simpler,
more streamlined application.
So let's look in a little bit more depth
at what some of the design motivations
have been for Mail on the iPhone.
One big point is that we try to focus our
user on the data that they're viewing.
If you think about applications
like Safari and Maps,
we try to fill the screen with the web
page or the map that's being viewed.
We avoid unnecessary
adornments or controls.
Even in Safari,
we scroll the location bar,
which is a pretty essential part of UI,
out of the way when
you're viewing a web page.
In Mail, since we have so many
different types of content,
we accomplish this by showing
one type of content at a time.
So if you've got a hierarchy of data,
it's really effective to just show
one type of content on the screen.
And sort of tying these concepts
together is a phrase that we like to
use a lot internally when we're talking
about the design of an iPhone app.
And that's the idea of a
screen full of content.
And we're going to talk about
that a little bit more later,
but I wanted to get the phrase in your
head so you start thinking about it.
So what are some different ways that
you can connect screenfuls of content
when you're designing an application?
There are two very common patterns in
iPhone applications for doing this.
The first one is to use a navigation bar.
The navigation bar appears
always at the top of the screen.
A second very common pattern
is to use the tab bar,
which appears at the
bottom of the screen.
So let's go into a little bit more depth
on each of these topics and see how
they're used in an iPhone application.
In an application with a navigation bar,
you're generally presenting a
hierarchy of content with parent-child
or master-detail relationships.
And as the user performs actions,
we navigate into that hierarchy with
the current context always reflected
in the title of the navigation bar.
And we also give the user some context
about where they've been and what's
going to happen when they press the
back button by putting a title in the
back button of the navigation bar.
In a TabBar app,
there are several self-contained
modes which live in parallel
at the top level of the app.
And the user is able to toggle
between these modes by pressing
on the TabBar buttons down
at the bottom of the screen.
[Transcript missing]
So with this design concept in mind,
let's jump in and start
building an iPhone application.
And the application that we're
going to build is a very popular
one here at Apple when we're trying
to show off some new technologies.
It's going to be a recipes application.
Apologies if you're already developing
a recipes app for the iPhone.
Maybe you can take some
inspiration or not.
Our recipes app is going to have
three screenfuls of content.
And the first one is
going to be a recipe list.
In this case, we're starting out with a
single recipe in the list.
We're actually going to extend this
app later in the sessions here at WWDC.
But for right now,
it just has chocolate cake, which is OK.
We're then going to navigate
into a recipe detail view that
has a list of ingredients,
some instructions,
and a button which allows the user
to go into a third screen which shows
a photo of the finished product.
So we've got three
screenfuls of content here.
And the way we're going to build
this under the hood is to have
three controllers in our application
to manage those three screenfuls.
So we'll have a list controller,
a detail controller,
and a photo controller.
And this might seem kind
of innocuous or obvious,
but it actually represents a lot of
trial and error and experimentation
in application development.
On the iPhone application team,
we tried writing apps in
a lot of different ways.
And we found that the most effective
and extendable way to write an app
is to think about the application.
And we found that the most effective
and extendable way to write an app is to
think about the application development.
And we found that the most effective
and extendable way to write an app is to
think about the application development.
And we found that the most effective
and extendable way to write an app is to
think about the application development.
is to think of it in terms of these
self-contained controllers that you
can extend and work on individually.
It makes it a lot easier to find and
fix bugs as well as add new features.
So we wanted to make it really
easy for you to use this type
of pattern in your iPhone app.
So we crystallized some of the
aspects of this into a set of
classes in the UIKit framework,
and the first one that we're going
to talk about is your starting point,
and it's called the UIViewController.
UI View Controller is the
basic building block for your
application at the controller level.
And it's responsible for managing
a screenful of content and
everything about that screenful.
And generally,
the way it'll work in your application
is that you'll create a subclass of
UI View Controller and fill in your
application logic and behavior and
anything specific to that screenful.
And it'll wrap up the views, data,
and the logic all in one
self-contained piece.
So the first obvious responsibility
of a view controller is that
it needs to manage a view,
right?
So how do you hook up a
view controller with a view?
There are two ways to do this.
And the first one that we're going to
talk about is to use Interface Builder.
Interface Builder is our visual,
you know, view layout and design tool for
Cocoa and iPhone applications.
And the way view controllers fit
with Interface Builder is that
you'll create a new Interface Builder
document and you'll lay out your view.
It may be a single view,
it may be a really complex
hierarchy of views,
and you'll set up the properties and the
connections between those views in IB.
And once you've done this,
you'll then take your view controller
subclass and set it as the file's owner.
You can do this via the pop-up in
the Interface Builder inspector.
And this is basically saying
that your view controller is
responsible for managing your view.
You're managing the entire
contents of the nib,
the Interface Builder document.
That's what the file's owner is.
It's sort of a special object which
is responsible for the whole nib.
And once you've done this,
you can hook up the view
controller to its top-level view.
And you do this by setting
the view outlet from the
view controller to the view.
And at this point,
your view controller and
the nib are ready to roll.
You can instantiate a view controller
by calling initWithNibName and bundle
and passing the name of the nib.
And at this point, you can use the view
controller in your app.
Somebody can ask it for its view.
And that view will be loaded lazily.
So the view and the nib don't get
loaded when you call initWithNibName.
It gets loaded on demand,
which is a big advantage for your
application's launch time and
other aspects of the performance.
The second way to get a view for a view
controller to manage is to do it in code.
So to do this,
in your subclass of UIViewController,
you're going to override a
special method called loadView.
And this method gets called as needed,
sort of on demand,
whenever the view controller's view is
requested and hasn't yet been created.
And within your
implementation of loadView,
you'll create your views in code.
So you can set up--it
might be a single view.
It might be a whole bunch of views
that are all related together.
Whatever the case, you're then going to
set the view property.
In the same way that we set the view
outlet in the interface builder case,
we're going to set the view
property on the view controller.
So the way this would actually
look in code is that we would
override loadView in our subclass.
We would set up our views--in this case,
some class called myView--and
then we set the view property.
And from here,
the view controller is managing the view.
So you can release it because the view
controller is the one responsible for it.
So we know how to give a view
controller a view to manage.
What other interesting things
are there about UIViewController?
There are a few--whoa,
whoa--and we create it within it.
In this case,
we don't need to pass in a Nib
name because we're not using a Nib.
There are some interesting hooks for
application events that you can hook
into with UI View Controller as well.
And the biggest one is that when your
view is about to appear on the screen,
you'll get a callback in your
UI View Controller subclass,
where you can load your data from
disk and prepare it for display.
So this is another
example of lazy loading.
Rather than, say,
loading your data from a database
when your view controller is created,
do it on demand when it's about
to be displayed on the screen.
And this will help your
performance out a lot.
On the flip side,
when your view is about to
disappear from the screen,
this is a great opportunity
to save your data.
So in most iPhone apps,
there aren't explicit save/cancel
buttons or pop-ups saying,
"Are you sure you want to
save?" A lot of the time,
if your user has edited
the data in some way,
you'll just want to save it out
automatically when the view disappears.
And this is also a good place to
persist things like the user's scroll
position or other aspects of the view
which they might have customized.
On top of all that,
there are hooks in UI View Controller for
supporting some more advanced
features in iPhone applications,
such as interface rotation
and memory warnings,
both of which are essential
to iPhone app development.
And those are going to be discussed
in greater detail in the Controls,
Views, and Animation session,
which is tomorrow morning,
as well as the Mastering iPhone
View Controllers session,
which is on Thursday afternoon.
So I encourage you to
come and check those out.
So we know how to use an
individual view controller.
But what we really want to do is link
several view controllers together
to make a full-featured application.
That's the most interesting
application of view controllers.
So how do we do that?
If you remember,
we talked about a couple of really
common application flows in iPhone apps.
And we wanted to make that really,
really easy for you to adopt.
So there are a couple of classes
in UIKit that you can use.
The first one is for creating
navigation bar applications.
is called UI Navigation Controller.
And the idea with UI Navigation
Controller is that it manages
a stack of view controllers,
as well as a nav bar at
the top of the screen.
And the Navigation Controller takes
care of transitioning,
positioning,
sizing the views to fit the content area,
as well as updating the
navigation bar to match.
So the way this fits together is that
the top view controller in the stack
has its view displayed in the main
content area between the navigation
bar and the bottom of the screen.
Additionally,
the top view controller's view--or
title--is displayed in the nav
bar at the top of the screen.
So this gives the user some
context about where they are.
And you don't need to set this yourself.
As long as the view
controller has a title,
it's displayed in the
correct way automatically.
And finally,
the previous view controller's title
is displayed as a back button on
the left-hand side of the screen.
So how do you actually get view
controllers into a navigation controller?
There are two main
operations for doing this.
And if you're familiar with some
computer science terminology,
you'll know what they are.
The first one is to push.
So if you want to add a view
controller to the stack,
you'll call pushViewController with the
view controller that you want to add.
And you can tell it
whether or not to animate.
There are some cases where you want to
animate and other cases where you don't.
To remove a view controller from
the stack and do the corresponding
animation to animate it off the screen,
you'll call popViewController,
and you can tell it whether
or not to animate it.
And you'll notice here,
we don't pass a parameter
to popViewController.
It always operates on the top
view controller on the stack.
There are some other
methods for manipulating the
navigation controller's stack,
but these are the two
most important ones.
So when exactly do we call push
and pop in our application flow?
First of all, when you're setting up your
initial navigation state,
most often in your application
didFinishLaunching method
in your app delegate,
you're going to create
a navigation controller.
You can do this in IB,
or you can just call
UINavigationControllerAlecInit.
Once you have your navigation
controller created,
you can then begin pushing view
controllers onto its stack.
So, for our first view controller,
we're going to call pushViewController,
pass it,
and we're going to say no for animating,
because when we first launch our app,
we don't want the user to be seeing
some side-to-side transitions.
We just want it to
launch to our first view.
And you can actually push multiple
view controllers here if you want your
user to start several levels deep when
you first bring up the navigation.
And finally,
we need to display it on the screen.
So, a navigation controller is actually
a subclass of UIViewController,
so you can use it anywhere
that you would normally be
able to use a view controller.
So, most commonly,
you'll call addSubView,
passing the navigation
controller's view as the parameter.
And the navigation controller's
view is a special container view,
which includes both the navbar at the
top of the screen and the content area
for the top view controller's view.
So your app is up and running,
and your user is interacting with it,
pressing buttons and
selecting table rows.
How do you push and pop in response
to those types of user actions?
The most common place that you're
going to push in your application
is going to be from within one of
your view controllers on the stack.
So for example,
within our recipe list controller,
the user may press the button
that says chocolate cake.
And so we want to transition the
chocolate cake detail onto the screen.
So what we're going to do from
within the navigation controller is
get a reference to our parent--from
within the list controller,
we're going to talk to our
parent navigation controller
and tell it to push.
So what we'll do is call
self.navigationController,
which gets our parent,
and then we're going to push
some other view controller.
In this case,
we want to do it with animation
because that gives the user a
better feel for what's actually
happening in their application.
Now, popping is a little bit different.
You're actually rarely
going to call pop directly.
In fact,
don't be surprised if you never actually
call popViewController in your code.
And the reason for that is that
it's automatically invoked by the
back button in a navigation bar.
So this is such a common thing,
we wanted it to behave consistently
in navigation-based apps,
so you don't have to
write the code for this.
It'll just work.
So we're going to go ahead and do that.
With all this in mind,
let's start building
the Recipes application.
So I'm going to ask Alex to come on
stage and we're going to start doing it.
Good afternoon.
My name is Alex Aybes,
and I work with Evan on the
iPhone Software Engineering team.
So let's actually go ahead and
build this Recipes application.
What I have here is an Xcode project.
It is basically the Navigation
Controller application template,
with a couple of things
I changed and actually removed
for the purpose of the demo.
So the first thing we're looking at here
is the Recipes application delegate.
As you can see,
it has a couple of outlets to a
window and a navigation controller.
Again, this is pretty much the template.
As you can see on the side here,
we have a few additional
view controllers.
And we're going to cover
those in a few minutes.
So I'm actually just going to go ahead
and run this application to show you.
There's nothing in my sleeves.
So as you can see,
just a blank window in there.
So let's go ahead and build
this navigation controller,
the first step of the application.
So when the application did finish
launching method of the delegate,
we're going to create our
navigation controller,
the basic step in there.
So we're going to go ahead,
call allocate the navigation controller,
and then add the navigation controller's
view as a subview of the window.
So let's build and run this.
And as you can see on screen now,
we have a navigation bar at the top and,
again, a blank window because we haven't
added any view controllers.
So let's go ahead and add
the first view controller.
If you remember,
this is the list of recipes
we're going to add there.
Let's go back to Xcode.
I have already created the
RecipeList View Controller.
Let's take a look at that.
It is a simple subclass of
UI View Controller that has one action,
the View Chocolate Cake action,
which is going to be called when
we press the Chocolate Cake button.
So this view controller,
we're actually going to
create an interface builder.
So I'm going to select
the recipe symbol list.
Neb and Openit and edit it in Xcode.
Let me hide the back.
So, again,
we have the files owner and the view.
First thing we're going to do
is actually set up the view.
I cheated a little and
actually set it up already.
It's got a single button in there.
Really complex for now.
So once you've laid out the view,
you can close this.
And the next thing we're going to do
is set the class of the file zone.
Again, from the slides earlier,
we're going to set this
to be the view controller.
So we're going to go to the Tools menu,
to the Identity Inspector.
and said the class of the files owner
to be the recipe list view controller.
As you notice here,
Interface Builder picks up on
the fact that this particular
view controller has one action.
Once we've done this,
we're going to wire the view controller,
which is the files owner in this case,
to our view.
For this, we're going to go to the
connections inspector.
and drag the view outlet to our view.
All right, we've connected the view.
The next step,
we have an action in our view--a button,
rather.
So we need to wire that to the view
controller's view chocolate cake method.
So in the chocolate cake method,
I'm going to select the touch-up inside
here and drag it to the files owner.
Again, it knows that about the
view chocolate cake method,
so I'm going to wire it to that.
All right, that's all we need to
do in Interface Builder.
So I'm going to close that
Interface Builder document,
go back to Xcode.
Now,
this is the very first view controller
we're going to push on the stack.
So I'm going to do this in
the recipes app delegate.
Again, in the application
definition launching method,
we created the navigation controller.
Next step is to actually create
this first view controller.
So we create the first view controller,
the recipe list view controller,
by calling alec, init with name name.
This is the name we just
edited in Interface Builder.
And we're going to find that
name in the main bundle.
Once we've instantiated
this view controller,
we need to push it onto the stack
by just calling pushViewController
on the navigation controller.
Again, as Evan mentioned earlier,
we do not want to animate this first one
because this is before the application
is actually shown to the user.
This is the initial
load of the application.
Once we've pushed the view controller
onto the navigation controller stack,
we don't need to hold onto it.
So we're actually going to release it.
This is now owned by the
navigation controller.
Once we've done this,
let's build and run.
And there we go.
We have our view.
The view we just set up in Interface
Builder is now in our navigation stack.
As you notice here,
we don't actually have a title.
Probably want to update that next.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Back to Xcode.
This time we're going to modify
the Recipe List View Controller.
So, as I mentioned earlier,
this is just a simple
subclass of UIViewController.
So, in the implementation file,
in the initWithNameName method,
nameName and bundle,
we're going to actually
set the title property.
Set it to recipes.
Again, this is our recipe list.
And build and run again.
And there we go.
We have recipes, the title.
All we had to do, set the title property
on that view controller.
The next step is to actually hook up
this chocolate cake button in there.
Right now it doesn't do anything
because we have not done anything
in the view chocolate cake method.
So let's implement the
view chocolate cake method.
back in the recipe list view controller,
the view chocolate cake method.
We're going to create
the next view controller.
In this case,
we have a view controller called the
RecipeSimpleDetailViewController that
I'm going to show you in a moment.
This view controller, again,
uses a nib to define the interface.
So all we need to do is call recipe
simple detail view controller,
and it will name.
This is the nib it uses
to define its interface,
and find it in the main bundle.
This name has already been set up,
and I'm not going to cover that
right now since it's essentially
the same thing as the previous one.
The important thing here is how we push
it onto the navigation controller stack.
For this, remember,
we're in the recipe list view controller.
So we're going to get the recipe
list view controller's navigation
controller and push the detail view
controller--the next one in the
stack--onto this navigation controller.
In this case,
we do want to animate because
this way the user is actually
going to see what happens.
Once we've done that, again,
no need to hold onto it,
so we're going to release it.
So with that, we're going to actually
run the application again.
And now,
when I press the chocolate cake button,
I see the recipe.
This is the default nib.
It's got a text view in it,
and it has the default text right now.
So let's go ahead and
update the text in there.
Back in Xcode, now we're going to edit
the next view controller,
the Recipe Simple Detail View Controller,
the one we just saw on screen.
Here, again, as you can see,
it says the title.
There's a couple other things.
Here we have this viewDidLoad method.
This is a special method
on UI View Controller that
you can overwrite.
It is called once the
nib has been loaded,
once all the outlets have been connected.
So at that point, you're good to go and
you're good to set up.
The recipe simple detail view controller
is a simple subclass of UI view
controller that has one outlet,
the description view.
And that's the UI text view we
saw when running the application.
So back in the implementation,
in the viewDidLoad method,
we're going to actually set
the text of that text view.
So all we need to do,
since the outlets have been
connected at this point,
is set the text to be the actual recipe.
I don't necessarily recommend
trying out that recipe.
So, view the chocolate cake,
and there we go.
We have the recipe actually displayed.
Next step in here is to
actually view the picture.
Again, we haven't done anything there,
so that button doesn't work.
So let's actually go back
to Xcode and implement this.
As you can see,
there's a show photo method.
It's been wired in Interface Builder,
same way the view chocolate
cake method was wired earlier.
Just for a little change,
we're actually going to build this third
view controller and entire lane code,
just to show you how that works.
Before that,
we're going to actually push it,
create it.
We have this recipe for the
view controller that is,
again, a very simple subclass
of UIViewController,
not even any instance variable.
So back in the recipe simple detail view
controller in the show photo method,
we're actually going to,
same way as before,
instantiate the recipe
for the view controller.
This time, you notice we don't need to
pass in a nib since we're
creating this from code entirely.
And again,
get our navigation controller and push
the photo view controller onto the
stack of the navigation controller.
Again, we animate since the user
needs to know what's going on.
And we release the photo view
controller once we don't need it,
since we don't need it anymore,
since it's on the stack.
Now, let's take a look at the actual
recipe for the view controller.
Again,
I mentioned we're doing this all in code.
So here,
in the recipe for the view controller,
we're going to implement
the load view method.
This is a method that will be called
appropriately at the right time.
You just need to create
your view in there.
So what we're going to do here
is create a UI image with the
chocolate cake resource that
we have in our application,
and then create a
UI image view from that.
And here comes the important part.
We're going to set the view property
of our Recipe Photo View Controller to
be that image view.
Again, we release it since we
don't need to hold onto it.
The view controller is
already holding onto it.
All right, once we have that,
we're actually going to run it.
And there we go.
We have the chocolate cake,
the actual recipe, and voila,
a beautiful photo of the final product.
And that's it for our demo.
Back to you, Evan.
[Transcript missing]
TabBar Controller manages an
array of view controllers,
as well as the tab bar down
at the bottom of the screen.
So the way this actually all fits
together on the screen is that
the selected view controller's
view is displayed in the main
content area between the tab bar
at the bottom and the iPhone status
bar at the top of the screen.
It's automatically positioned and sized.
Some attributes of all of your
view controllers which are being
managed are displayed in the tab
bar at the bottom of the screen.
So as you can see here,
the titles and some other properties of
those view controllers are being shown.
And this gets done for you automatically.
You don't need to tweak
the tab bar yourself.
So UI Tab Bar Controller is
actually a pretty simple class.
And I think we're just going to
jump in and show you how to build
a tab bar-based app using it.
So, Alex.
Thank you.
All right, for this one,
we're going to open a
slightly different project.
I'm going to hide this one,
pick the next--the tab bar demo.
This particular project is
also a modified version of the
template for the sake of the demo.
We have our application delegate that
has a UI tab bar controller in it,
and all the application delegate
really does is--let me--
Resize this.
All it really does is set
the tab bar controller's view
as a subview of the window.
Then we have a few subclasses
of the UI View Controller--a
chocolate View Controller,
a cobbler View Controller,
and a French macaron View Controller.
The best one.
For a little change,
we're actually going to do the
rest of this entirely in IB.
So let's open the main window
interface builder document.
I'm going to hide the Xcode in there.
And there we go.
This is pretty much the
template main window.
You've got a file owner, a files owner.
That is actually in the identity class.
It's just a UI application.
You've got an application delegate,
in this case, our TabBarDemoAppDelegate,
and a window.
This tab bar demo app delegate,
as you notice,
has one outlet to the window and one
outlet to the tab bar controller.
So we want a tab bar application,
so let's actually build it.
We're going to go to the
library in the objects,
select the tab bar controller,
and drag this into our main window,
nib file.
So as you can see,
we get a little window here with
a couple of items in the tab bar.
So we want three different tabs in there.
So the first one we're going to set
to the Chocolate View Controller.
For this,
we go to the Identity Inspector, again,
in the Tools menu, and set the class.
You can notice that Interface
Builder actually auto-completes.
It's quite nice and easy.
The second item we're going to
set is the second view controller.
We're going to use the
Cobbler view controller class.
And I mentioned we need three,
so let's actually add
a third one in there.
For this, we go back to the library in
Interface Builder and the objects,
pick a view controller,
and simply drag it into the tab bar.
This will create a third
item in the tab bar.
And again, I'm going to go back to the
View Controller Identity Inspector and
make this the Macaron View Controller.
There we go.
Next thing we need to do is customize
those titles down here at the bottom.
So for this,
I'm just going to double-click
in there and make this Macaron.
And yes, this is the French spelling,
if I can still remember it.
The second one was Cobbler.
And the first one was Chocolate,
of course.
Excuse me.
There we go.
Last step in here, we need to customize
those little icons there.
Question marks aren't that great.
So we're going to go to the Media tab,
and this is our really artistic way
of representing a chocolate cake.
And then the cobbler.
And then we need the Mac run.
Oh, we probably don't want that one.
Let's actually use that one.
All right.
Last thing I need to do is wire
the-- in the application delegate,
remember we have a tab
bar controller outlet.
So I'm going to go to the connections
inspector and actually wire this tab bar
controller to our tab bar controller.
Yes,
now you see we have a connection there.
Let's close this.
This is all we need to
do in Interface Builder.
So close, go back to Xcode,
and build and run.
And now we have a tab
bar-based application.
And if I select the different items,
I see the different
photos and the macaroons.
All right.
That's it for building a tab bar
application in Interface Builder.
Back to you, Evan.
So what did we just see?
Again, we created several subclasses
of UI View Controller and then
plugged them into a plain,
vanilla UI Tab Bar Controller to manage
the transitions between each one's view.
And then we customized the titles
and the images to give our users a
better idea of what was going on.
And again, we didn't have to manage
any of this stuff ourselves.
This is really common code
in many iPhone applications,
so we wanted to make it
really easy to adopt.
So you don't have to worry about
sizing your view to fit in the space
between the tab bar and the status
bar or any of that sort of stuff.
If you find yourself wanting to roll
your own tab bar application flow,
I really encourage you to take a
step back and see if you can use the
pieces that we've already created,
because it'll save you a lot of time.
Next, so we've seen how to build a
navigation and a tab bar-based app.
But there is one more thing
which I'd like to cover.
Am I allowed to say that?
Probably not.
Think back to the first time
you saw the iPhone demonstrated.
And for me at least,
the applications which really jumped out,
which really amazed me,
were the apps like Safari and Photos,
which rotate their UI in
response to user interaction.
You know, this is a really eye-catching
feature that creates a lot of buzz.
And wouldn't it be great if you
could adopt rotation really easily
in your application as well?
One big advantage of this is that
your users are going to want to
show your app off to their friends.
When it's time to whip out the
iPhone and show it off at a party,
they're going to say,
"Check out this app.
It rotates." And you're going
to build a lot of word of
mouth about your application.
Additionally,
there are some more concrete reasons for
supporting rotation in your iPhone app.
Some types of content
are not always the same.
For example,
if you're using a mobile phone,
you're going to want to make sure
that you're not using a mobile phone.
You're going to want to make sure
Some types of content just
fit better in landscape.
Photos, maybe some web pages.
The keyboard, a lot of users prefer
typing in landscape.
So we wanted to make it easy for
you to support this in your app.
So there are two steps to supporting
this with view controllers.
The first step is to decide
whether or not to rotate.
So in each of your view
controller subclasses,
if you want it to be rotatable,
you're going to override
a special method called
shouldAutorotateToInterfaceOrientation.
And the default implementation of this
method just returns yes for the portrait
right-side-up interface orientation.
So if you'd like to support more
orientations in your view controller,
you're going to override this.
And here, we're just going to return yes
because we want to support any
interface orientation out there.
And now, one thing worth noting here
is that if you're writing a
navigation or a tab-bar-based app,
you need to make sure that all
of your view controllers support
the same set of orientations.
This is currently a limitation
of those container controllers.
If you have some view controllers which
support landscape and some that don't,
the results currently are
going to be kind of unexpected.
So if you have a view controller that
supports landscape and some that don't,
the results currently are
going to be kind of unexpected.
So if you have a view controller that
supports landscape and some that don't,
the results currently are
going to be kind of unexpected.
So you need to make sure that
you're consistent in your support.
Once you've decided whether to rotate,
there's a second step,
and that's to make sure that
your views resize to fit the
available space on the screen.
Because when you go from
portrait to landscape,
the available bounds of the
content area will change.
So there's a really easy way to do this,
and it's by using auto-resizing
masks on your UI views.
So the way to do this in code--here,
we want our view to grow and shrink
both vertically and horizontally
to fit the available space,
as defined by its super view.
So we're going to set the
auto-resizing mask to flexible
width and flexible height.
Now, if you're setting up your
view in Interface Builder,
you can do it there as well.
And you use what we call springs and
struts in the Interface Builder UI.
And here,
we're doing the exact same thing
via those springs and struts.
So our view has a flexible
height and width and is pinned
to all four edges of the screen.
Now, let's say we wanted to create a view
that was flexible in terms of width,
but was actually pinned to the
bottom of the screen and didn't
grow and shrink vertically.
The way we would do that via the
auto-resizing masks would be to use
flexible width and a flexible top margin.
So the equivalent setup in Interface
Builder would be this one right here.
And sometimes this can take a
little trial and error to get right.
But the nice thing about
doing it in IB is that,
as you can see, on the right side,
there's a square which grows and shrinks
as the containing view grows and shrinks.
So you can sort of simulate what's going
to happen in terms of your view sizing.
This makes it easier to figure
out what the right settings are.
So once you've done both of these things,
you're pretty much ready to
go as far as rotation goes.
There are some more advanced ways
in which you can customize it,
which are going to be covered
in the talk I mentioned earlier,
controls, views, and animation,
tomorrow morning.
So let's see this in action
with the Recipes app.
Let's make it rotate.
So, Alex, one more time.
One more time.
All right,
we have the recipes application.
Let's actually go back to Xcode.
I'm going to close the tab bar demo.
Reopen our recipes application.
And I'm going to run it just to
show you where we're at right now.
Again, we have the chocolate cake,
the actual recipe, and the photo.
What happens when I rotate?
I'm going to go to hardware in
the simulator and rotate left.
Well, nothing actually happens.
If I rotate the other way, nope, nothing.
And none of our actual view
controllers support rotation,
so rotation is just not going
to do anything at this point.
Let's go to Xcode and
Implement rotation.
Let's make our view controllers rotate.
As Evan mentioned,
just one method to override in
the view controller subclass.
That's the "should auto-rotate
to interface" orientation.
Another thing Evan mentioned,
do it in every single one
of your view controllers.
So we're going to do that.
In the detail view controller,
You can do the same thing.
Should it auto-rotate?
And in the recipe list, again,
should it auto-rotate?
Yes, absolutely.
It should auto-rotate.
Let's run this.
Now we're in the recipe list.
We're going to rotate left,
and there we go.
We have rotation.
If I rotate right, and again, it rotates.
Fantastic.
The next view, the detail view,
let's try to see how this one rotates.
As you can see, not quite right.
This doesn't look quite
the way we want it to look.
So this is because we haven't
actually set up the springs
and struts yet for this view.
Let's go back to Xcode,
or rather actually,
let's go to Interface Builder.
We're going to open the Nib file
for this particular view controller.
And here's the view.
The first thing we're going to
do is make sure the background
view is actually set up properly.
So we're going to go to the Tools menu,
the Size Inspector.
And this is the background view.
As we can see, it's pinned to all four
corners-- to all four sides,
rather-- and flexible height,
flexible width, so we're good.
Next on the list is the actual text view.
So this one is not actually
set to size in any kind of way.
So we're going to pin it to the top,
the left, the bottom, and the right,
and again,
make it grow in both directions.
As you can see in the little preview,
great.
This is actually going to
expand as the view changes size.
Perfect.
The button, it is pinned to the
right for some reason.
We don't really want that.
All we want to do is to pin it
to the bottom and make it grow.
Actually, no.
We don't want to make it grow.
All we want to do is
pin it to the bottom.
It's going to stay the same size.
All right.
With this, save it.
That's all we really need to do.
Let's go back to Xcode.
Run again.
And again, this one rotates nicely.
Still, I haven't broken it yet.
Press chocolate cake and rotate this one.
As we can see,
much better layout in here.
So let's take a look at the next one.
Except apparently I--
I made it a little too small.
Let's actually go ahead and fix it,
'cause this isn't right.
Let's go back to Interface Builder,
and let's just actually just
make this a little bigger.
Let's rotate.
Yeah, better this time.
All right.
Rotating back.
Let's take a look at the
photo view controller.
Let's view the picture.
Looks pretty good in this orientation.
Let's rotate it.
Again, not quite right.
Let's go ahead and fix it.
Again, this is the one view controller
we set up entirely in code,
so this is going to be
a little bit different.
In the recipe for the view controller,
Again, in the load view method,
we're creating this view.
What we need to do here is
set the autoresizing masks.
So we're going to set the
autoresizing masks to flexible height,
flexible width,
so that it grows with its container view,
its super view.
Next thing we're going to do in
addition to that is actually set the
content mode for the UI image view.
This is the property of the--
[Transcript missing]
There we go.
We have the image.
When we rotate, there we go.
It rotates, scales properly,
and everything.
And when I go back,
Everything's there in
the right orientation.
All right.
And that's all you need to do to get
rotation in the recipes application.
Back to you, Evan.
So as you can see,
using view controllers in your
application makes it really
easy to support rotation.
Trust me,
there's a lot of nasty geometry that
goes into making rotation work nicely,
and if you can avoid writing that code,
that's a big advantage.
We'd like to continue extending
the Recipes application.
So in the session after this one,
in this same room,
we're going to add some table
views to the Recipes app.
So at the top level,
we're going to have a list of recipes.
And at the recipe detail level,
we're going to add a different type of
table view that allows us to display
the ingredients and other types of
data more effectively to the user.
So I'd really encourage you to stick
around and check this session out.
And then on Thursday,
in the Mastering iPhone
View Controller session,
we're going to cover some more
advanced topics with view controllers.
Specifically,
we're going to customize the navigation
bar at the top of the screen,
and we're going to combine the
navigation and tab bar application flows.
So this is a really common
way to build a really complex,
full-featured application.
And there are some other features
which we're going to add,
which you can't currently see here,
but I really encourage you
to all come and check it out.
So that just about wraps things up.
I'd really like to encourage you all
to embrace the concept of a screenful.
If you do this,
it's really going to help you to craft a
great iPhone application user experience.
And remember, view controllers are your
building blocks for your app.
Using view controllers to
manage a screenful of content is
much easier than just figuring
out a way to do it yourself.
And it makes it much easier to maintain
and manage and extend your code.
And finally,
it allows you to adopt common application
flows without needing to roll your own.
And this isn't just for, you know,
simple demo test apps.
You know, we actually use this in the
applications that we ship at Apple.
The iTunes Music Store is
one example of this.
It's an application that
was developed using view
controllers from the ground up.
And this app was developed by
a single engineer in a really
ridiculously short amount of time.
And to be fair,
he's a really smart engineer,
and he was working like 32 hours a day.
But he was able to focus on what
made that application unique
rather than reinventing the wheel.
And you can reap the same benefit in your
application by using view controllers.
So I'd encourage you to,
if you have more questions that you
can't get answered here at WWDC,
to talk to Derek Horn.
I wanted to include a
map to his house here,
but he wouldn't let me.
You can send him an email,
or you can also check out the
view controller documentation
on the iPhone developer website,
and that has some really great info on
the topics which we just talked about,
as well as some more advanced
areas of view controllers.
And again,
I'd like to plug some sessions.
The table view sessions,
the understanding one is this afternoon,
and the mastering table view
session is on Friday morning.
And also,
mastering iPhone view controllers,
we're going to cover some really cool
topics with view controllers in your app.
And on top of all that,
we've got a couple of view
controller-specific labs.
So if you've got code and you're
using view controllers in your
app and you've got questions,
drop by, bring your code.
Alex and I are going to be there
along with a bunch of other engineers,
and we can help answer your questions.
So looking forward to see you there.